# mdoc - a simple markdown based documentation generator

This is a simple markdown based documentation generator, it will search all the
markdown files inside the "input" directory and output an HTML file for each
document, it will also generate a "TOC" (table of contents) for each file and
links to all the pages on the index page, it also provides a basic search
feature and quick browsing between classes/methods/properties.

Reasoning behind it: [inline documentation, why I'm ditching it
](http://blog.millermedeiros.com/2011/03/inline-documentation-why-im-ditching-it/).



## Markdown syntax

mdoc uses the github "codeblock syntax" to highlight code. E.g.:


    ```js
      //code will be highlighted as JavaScript
    ```

    ```python
      //code will be highlighted as Python
    ```

Currently the parser considers H2 as sections/methods/properties names and will add them
to the TOC at the top of each file and automatically generate deep-links to them.
It's important to notice that **mdoc only recognizes headers on the atx-style as a
new section**.

The first paragraph after the H2 will be used as description on the sidebar. Currently
the search feature only searches copy from the title and description.

For a markdown syntax reference check: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/dingus
And also check the structure of the example files.



## Install

You can install it through [NPM](http://npmjs.org):

    npm install -g mdoc



## Basic Usage

In a nodeJS file, create the basic outline with the desired configuration options listed below

```javascript
require('mdoc').run({
    // configuration options (specified below)
    inputDir: 'docs',
    outputDir: 'dist'
});
```

Run the file `node build.js`. The outputDir will contain the finished HTML site.



## Configuration

#### Source/Destination Directories (Required)

The following two options contain the source directory to read the documentation from and
the destination directory to write the finished product to.

```
inputDir: 'docs'
outputDir: 'dist'
```

### Basic settings (Optional)

#### Index File

These two options both specify what should go in to the index file. The `indexContent`
setting will take precedence and overwrite anything specified in `indexContentPath`.

```
indexContentPath: 'path/to/index.md'
indexContent: '<h1>Custom markup to be inserted</h1>'
```

#### Site Title Tag

This controls what goes in the `<title></title>` tag in the outputted HTML. The format
is `Filename : WhatIsInbaseTitle`.

`baseTitle: 'mdocs title tag'`

### Advanced settings (Optional)

#### Custom Templates

Specify the path to the custom templates to use. These should be Handlebar template files

`templatePath: 'path/to/template'`

#### Static Assets

Specify the path to the static asset files (JS/CSS/images, etc)

`assetsPath: 'path/to/assets'`

#### Outputted File Names

Change the name of the outputted HTML files using a custom replacement string

```javascript
mapOutName: function (outputName) {
 return outputName.replace('.html', '_doc.html');
}
```

#### Display Name

Change the name displayed on the sidebar and on the index TOC

```javascript
mapTocName: function (fileName, tocObject, title) {
 return fileName.replace('_doc.html', '');
}
```

#### Include Files

Pattern that matches files that should be parsed

`include: '*.mdown,*.md,*.markdown'`

#### Exclude Files

Pattern that matches files that shouldn't be parsed

`exclude: '.*'`

#### Filter Files

Filters file. Return `false` to remove files and `true` to keep them

```javascript
filterFiles: function (fileInfo) {
  return (/math/).test(fileInfo.input);
}
```

#### Heading Level

Sets which heading should be treated as a section start (and is used for TOC) defaults to `2`

`headingLevel: 3`


#### Handlebars Helpers

You can also pass custom [Handlebars helpers](http://handlebarsjs.com/#helpers)
to be used during the compilation.

```js
hbHelpers : {
  currency: function(val){
    var format = require('mout/number/currencyFormat');
    return format(val);
  },
  first: function(context, block) {
    return block.fn(context[0]);
  }
}
```

#### Handlebars context

You can also extend the context that gets provided to the Handlebars templates.

```js
ctx : {
  version: '1.0.0'
  menu: [
    { name: 'Home', link: '/'},
    { name: 'Documentation', link: '/docs'},
    { name: 'API', link: '/docs/api'}
  ],
  site: {
    page: {
      title: 'API Documentation'
    }
  }
}
```

Those could be used inside your custom template as follow

```html
<ul>
{{#each ctx.menu}}
  <li><a href="{{link}}">{{name}}</a></li>
{{/each}}
</ul>

<h2>{{ ctx.site.page.title }}</h2>
```

Also you can use Handlebars template in your markdown files:

```
## {{ ctx.site.page.title }}

Current version: {{ ctx.version }}
```

## Examples

For a live example check: [MOUT documentation](http://moutjs.com/docs/latest/)
or the [**unofficial** NodeJS api](http://millermedeiros.github.com/mdoc/examples/node_api/doc/)
(uses markdown files from [nodejs repository](https://github.com/joyent/node/tree/master/doc/api) as source)

### Command line interface

    mdoc -i examples/basic/content -o examples/basic/out

For a list of available commands run:

    mdoc -h


### Node module

Check files inside the "examples" folder. Run:

    cd examples/basic
    node build.js

Check output inside "examples/basic/doc".

Check "examples/advanced" for all the available settings.



## License

Released under the MIT license.
